[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to another edition
of "Beyond Belief."
I am George Noory and our
special guest is Freddy Silva.
Freddy is a researcher of
ancient history and a noted
author.
His latest book is called "The
Lost Art of Resurrection."
Freddy, welcome to the program.
>>FREDDY SILVA:
Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: It's good to see you.
>>SILVA: I like what you've
done with the place, by the way.
>>NOORY: It's been
a while, my friend.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Now tell me
about being an author.
How did you get involved in
investigating ancient history?
>>SILVA: In authorship--
I am of the opinion
that people kind of
are born to do something.
And sometimes,
they are very lucky
and they learned about
it early on in life.
I was drawing pyramids
when I was three.
And then I got sidetracked
into the material world.
I tried to become a rock star.
I didn't realize it was
going to be learning
about large, upright rocks.
So, after years of living
in the material world,
I decided to get a life and
actually go and investigate
the things that matter
most about life.
>>NOORY: You love
what you're doing.
>>SILVA: I adore what I do.
>>NOORY: I mean, you
have been to Egypt.
You have been everywhere.
What's been the most
fascinating place for you?
>>SILVA: Oh, god.
I just came back from Peru,
Saksaywaman, the places in Peru
which far outdate the Inca.
And they used megalithic
construction methods
which are beyond anything
you've ever seen.
>>NOORY: Are you convinced that
the ancients had more knowledge
than we think they had?
>>SILVA: They certainly managed
to lift a lot of big rocks
without the aid of cranes.
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>SILVA: So I say
they knew something
about the laws of nature, which
they had the complete power of.
>>NOORY: How did we
lose that knowledge?
>>SILVA: I think we go
through these cycles,
where we sort of learn a
few things about nature,
and then we basically
undo ourselves as usual,
pull the rug from under our own
feet, and then we start again.
It's like each cycle has its
own particular peculiarity,
if you like.
And then we're supposed
to master certain things,
forget about them, and
move on to another subject.
>>NOORY: Freddy,
your latest work
is called "The Lost
Art of Resurrection."
What does that mean?
>>SILVA: Oh, there
was a fun little thing
I was working on while I
was researching temples.
I kept coming across
these phrases, where
there were initiates
who were declared
risen or risen from the dead, or
people who were declared living
and the dead.
And I thought, this
sounds very Christian,
except these sites had nothing
to do with Christianity.
So where's all this coming from?
And I began to research the
concept of the [NON-ENGLISH]
and recognized that the concept
of the living, or the risen,
goes back to at least 3000 BC.
And in one case, in the Indus
Valley, to 6000 BC to a god-man
called Mithras upon whose
story Jesus was crafted.
>>NOORY: Much older
than most people think.
>>SILVA: A lot older and
much more empowering.
And it has nothing to
do with dead people,
at least physically,
and certainly no
one ever got nailed to a cross.
And nobody ever got back
from a physical death
and came back to life.
It was all metaphorical.
>>NOORY: You just
mentioned initiates.
Initiation-- what is that?
>>SILVA: Well, initiation
to most people,
when you bring up the
word, is something
that happens to you when
you bend over backwards
and you get hit
with a baseball bat,
but no, it's actually
very serious.
It's actually
about-- it actually
means becoming conscious.
And when you understand
that, there's
obviously big spiritual
components to the actual word.
And what happened was
that certain people who
were very curious
about becoming much
bigger than the
sum of their parts
were taken aside into mystery
schools and were actually--
went through a process
where, let's say,
their electrical system
was raised bit by bit
by bit by bit, which was
part of a secret techniques
of essentially
extending the awareness
of your physical body.
And when they did this,
they became much more aware
of the subtle world
and to a point
where they could actually see
through different realities
and bring back information
into the real world.
So that was part of the
secrets of why initiation
was so well maintained.
>>NOORY: And then when you
bring in the word resurrection,
most people will think
we're talking about Jesus.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>NOORY: But you're not.
>>SILVA: No.
And that was the
one thing that I was
particularly interested about--
was the story of Jesus unique?
Was it considered
to be a metaphor?
Because the one thing
I learned very quickly,
and having been raised
as a Catholic initially,
I wanted to ask why was the
Catholic church exterminating
all the gnostic Christians?
In fact, why were
they exterminating
everybody the time of Jesus,
and what did these people
have in common?
So once you study what all these
different sects had in common,
they all agreed, including
the later Muslim community,
that the whole story of
Jesus had been made up
from earlier heroes who had
gone through the same ritual.
And it was exactly that--
a ritual-- no one ever got
nailed to a cross physically.
No one ever physically
came back from the dead.
It's impossible.
They said the whole
story was a metaphor.
And there was one of the
famous gospels, which
was the Gospel of Thomas,
which the Church went
through huge expense to
make sure it never came out.
It actually talks about the
fact that if anyone actually
believes in the resurrection,
the crucifixion,
they're confusing a spiritual
truth with an actual event.
And Thomas goes
as far as to say,
and I quote, that
fundamental Christianity
is a faith of fools.
It was all a metaphor.
It was all a symbol
of people who
underwent this strange
initiation process.
>>NOORY: What an amazing way
though to keep us baffled--
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>NOORY: --by coming
with that story.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And Constantine, the
emperor, who was basically
a follower of the
god-man Mithras,
he was badgered by the Church.
And he eventually said, all
right, I've had enough now.
Why don't we just take the
word Mithra out of the story
and put Jesus in
there and we're done?
And that's how this
Catholicism was created.
But even so, the story
is over 8,000 years old.
But it does make Jesus a
much more interesting person
in my opinion.
>>NOORY: In Egypt, Freddy,
where you have visited,
they have found a
pit of severed hands.
They just found it.
And they are gigantic hands.
All from the right hand.
And they think that it was
either some kind of punishment
or some kind of ritual.
But what kind of
horrendous things
did they do in those days?
My gosh.
>>SILVA: The right hand of God.
It does put a different
spin on it, doesn't it?
>>NOORY: Strange.
>>SILVA: It is very strange.
I mean, from my
experience, nothing
like that ever really happened.
I mean, it was--
>>NOORY: A whole pit.
It's a pit of hands,
right hands, of what they
said could be giants.
>>SILVA: Now, that
is interesting.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>SILVA: And we're talking--
I mean, that comes
up a lot in the myths
of the pre-civilizations
that talk about people
that escaped the big flood.
They were very,
very much taller.
And they brought the
seeds of civilization
to humanity after the flood,
which was about 9703 BC.
And they do talk
about-- in fact,
in the Temple of Edfu in Egypt,
there's actually a mural that
talks about the [NON-ENGLISH],,
which is the nickname
for the teacher, the
spiritual teachers.
And it's said that the
initiates should stand up with
the [NON-ENGLISH] in the temple.
And they gave the measurements
as three cubits tall.
No, it's five cubits tall--
I beg your pardon--
which puts these tall
people at 15 feet.
>>NOORY: Geez.
>>SILVA: Makes me
wonder sometimes
whether the statues are
actually not depicting
something that is actually
a true depiction of life.
>>NOORY: Well, the Bible
makes reference to giants.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: So there's got
to be some truth here.
>>SILVA: Oh, I think so.
And I'm working on a new
project to actually find out
where these people come
from, where were they living,
why is it that all the stories--
and you've got to remember
as well that history
and archeology is
most of all framed
by a northern European
point of view,
a Victorian European
which holds that white Europeans
are the end of everything,
the all and be
all of everything.
It turns out that the people
from the indigenous cultures
are actually much more savvy
about the ancient world,
the prehistoric world.
And once you start
looking at the view
from their point of view,
the world before the flood
and after the flood
is much more coherent.
They all agree, even
from the Pacific,
from the Indus Valley,
Australia, New Zealand, which
I've just discovered the
pre-history of New Zealand,
they all talk about there's
another civilization here
of people who were much
more advanced in terms
of their knowledge of nature.
They could harness
the laws of nature.
>>NOORY: What about technology?
>>SILVA: Same concept.
There's a natural technology.
They could make things
move through the air.
I mean, some of the
temples in the Yucatan
and in Peru and in Egypt-- they
talk about the stones flying
through the air with ease.
Temples were built in the blink
of an eye, literally overnight.
Now, either that story--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>SILVA: --gets
around by diffusion,
or they are all
experiencing the same thing.
And when they happen in
opposite sides of the world,
there's no way they
could have made this up.
>>NOORY: No.
Not at all.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Something dramatic
happened on this planet.
>>SILVA: And they all talk
about them being tall.
For example, in Peru,
or in the Andes,
they talk about the bearded
giants who were white skins.
And that does not describe
people who are indigenous.
>>NOORY: No.
>>SILVA: And they all said
they came from the ocean
after their island homes
were swamped by a big flood.
So it seems to me that all of
these people lived on islands.
They were a race set
aside from everybody else.
Now, if you and I are going
to Borneo on an expedition
and suddenly, by accident,
bump into a tribe
of people who were minding
their own business, completely
naked, as we'd know--
>>NOORY: Haven't changed,
let's say, over the years.
>>SILVA: For
thousands of years--
we irreversibly changed
their direction.
It's called a prime directive
in Star Trek, by the way.
And I think Gene Roddenberg
picked up on this concept.
So basically, I think that
these people basically
were forced onto the
mainland after they
lost all their island homes.
And that's where
we start to get,
around 8000 BC, agriculture,
megalithic building
technology, understanding
of astronomy and astrology,
mathematics suddenly, in the
blink of an evolutionary eye.
So it seems to be more
than idle conjecture
that all the indigenous
people around the world
hold the knowledge and the
kernel of the real truth
of this ancient civilization,
which we can't find
many traces of, because it's now
way under the ocean and buried.
But we hear the
echoes everywhere.
>>NOORY: Atlantis?
>>SILVA: Atlantis, Lemuria.
I was just with a guide
in Peru, by the way.
We're talking about Lemuria.
He volunteered the conversation.
He said, yes, the Puquina tribe,
which are beyond the Aymara.
They're older than the Aymara.
The Puquina is
actually a culture
and the language which are the
remnants of Lemuria, he said.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>SILVA: For them, Lemuria
is not an abstract concept.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
>>SILVA: It's a real talking
point, as it is in the Yucatan.
>>NOORY: I love these
ancient stories.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Where does Freemasonry
fit into any of this?
>>SILVA: Well, Freemasonry
goes into two boxes.
You have London Rite
Freemasonry, which
is fairly recent, 18th century.
But then there's the
original Freemasonry,
which is 14th century.
And that's Scottish
Rite Freemasonry.
They essentially are the
progeny of the Knights Templar.
So essentially,
the Knights Templar
were up against a
bit of a problem.
The Church was after them.
Philip of France was after them.
They had resources of money,
but they couldn't basically
outgun these two big forces.
So they did the next best thing.
They fled France and Europe.
They went to Portugal
and Scotland.
And they basically
changed their name.
It was a public
relations exercise.
They became Scottish
Rite Freemasonry.
And they basically
had been picking up
on the mysteries teachings
and the initiation
practices of people like
the Essenes, the Mandaeans,
the Manicheans.
Same people, essentially.
They just keep
changing their names
to survive to another era.
>>NOORY: The Freemasons
did a simulated murder
as part of their initiation.
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look.
>> But there is Hiram Abiff, a
minor biblical figure mentioned
in a single line of
the Book of Chronicles,
transformed into the central
character of Masonic legend
and ritual.
>> It's purely Masonic myth.
And it's a Masonic myth
that we can trace back
quite a long way.
So he's a personification
of a belief system.
>> The mythical architect
suffers a painful death,
a killing that remains the
nucleus of the most important
of all Masonic rituals and
a popular term for intense
interrogation, the third degree.
Now, word reaches King
Solomon that his Master
Mason has been murdered.
>> Alas, I fear the
master's word is lost,
for you will remember that it
was agreed between yourself,
myself, and Grandmaster Hiram
Abiff that the secret word
of a Master Mason would not
be given unless we three were
present and agreed.
One of our number is no more.
>> And Hiram Abiff
represents the ego.
And the ego has to be
slain before the spirit can
rise free.
So you've got to learn
to control your ego.
And that's what the third
degree is all about.
And it's a very dramatic ritual.
>>SILVA: There's some
very dodgy beards in that.
>>NOORY: I was
going to say, those
could be the worst beards I
have ever seen in my life.
Well, what's the point?
>>SILVA: But they're right.
>>NOORY: What was
the point of that?
>>SILVA: The point was,
they were enshrined
in this very old
and very important
portion of the ritual,
which was the ritual
resurrection of the individual.
So essentially, in
Scottish Rite Freemasonry,
the initiates-- and
this was basically
given to women and men,
not just a male thing.
They were basically made to
lie down in a figurative grave.
And then they were administered
certain important information.
And then they were given the
hand by the Master Mason.
They used to be taken upright,
declared risen from the dead.
And the blindfold was removed,
and now they can see the light.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>SILVA: So, it's all about that
certain facet of information,
which leaves them, as the
gentleman correctly said--
I forgot his name.
I've got his book.
It's a wonderful book, actually.
And basically, you do declare
your governance over your ego,
because you have to basically
destroy your physical self.
You have to de-flesh
your old self in order
to be born anew or
risen from the dead.
So they're literally
saying that this
is following a very, very old
recipe that can be traced back
to Sumeria, ancient China, and
the Indus culture in 8000 BC.
So, the Scottish Rite Freemasons
are following a very, very old
prescription.
The trick is-- and I
don't think they actually
do the actual out
of body ceremony,
again because I think most
lawyers would jump over that.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SILVA: Because the
whole point of initiation
was to have an induced
near-death experience,
which was harrowing from
the accounts that I've read,
and yet everybody
wanted to do it.
Pythagoras did it three
to five times, I believe.
Plato did it.
Isaac Newton did it.
And they said it's the highest
level of spiritual development
we could possibly experience.
So they do it figuratively now.
They're the last keepers of that
knowledge in the Western world.
>>NOORY: Why does
it seem that they
do all of this in the
kind of mythological way,
where they kind of play act it?
And what are they
trying to accomplish?
>>SILVA: Oh, it was
actually quite clever,
because in the old days--
even today, I think--
there are people who
want to use this stuff
for nefarious purposes.
So what they did was-- it
was actually quite clever.
They would do passion
plays in public areas.
Or they'd talk fables in a pub.
And most of the
people, 99% of people,
would say, well, that was
a lovely little story.
Wonderful.
But there'll be the few who
would go, wait a minute.
Reading between the lines
of what you just said,
it seems like you're telling
me a different kind of story.
And that's where the deps
would say, why don't you
come with me?
We want to teach
you something else.
So they let you into
the mysteries teachings,
and they will give you
some basic understanding
of the big picture, but
they would observe you
for a whole year to make sure
that you were, A, responsible
and, B, someone who could be
trusted with this information.
You would use it
for the highest good
and for your
personal development
and for the best good of others.
And then they started the
process of the bigger mysteries
in your second year.
And in your third
year, once you learn
to harmonize your
dual opposites,
and you learned the
bigger mysteries of life,
then you'd undergo the
big initiation, which
is the induced
near-death experience.
You took the narcotic, you
left your body between three
to seven days in one case.
>>NOORY: Geez.
How many people
actually died from this?
>>SILVA: That's what I
really wanted to know.
And I never heard that.
Nothing has ever been
written about this,
or nothing survives.
But they must have tried
this out at some point,
because a lot of the
narcotics that they took
were serious poisons.
>>NOORY: Oh my god, yeah.
>>SILVA: So for example--
>>NOORY: If you're knocked
out for three or five days,
you may be knocked
out permanently.
>>SILVA: And this was different
from shamanism, by the way.
This was actually a
medically induced experience.
So let's say, for
example, with arsenic--
if you take a 4%
dilution of arsenic,
it can be beneficial under
certain circumstances.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SILVA: 10% is deadly.
They figured out the same
thing with the [NON-ENGLISH]
and other essences.
In Central America, it's
called [NON-ENGLISH]..
They still do it today.
And again, how did
they figure out
how much of this actual narcotic
to take before it actually
became beneficial?
>>NOORY: Trial and
error for this.
>>SILVA: Yes.
Bring in another volunteer.
>>NOORY: Woop, that
one didn't work.
>>SILVA: Take it down 5%.
>>NOORY: Gave him a
little bit too much.
No, you're right.
And I wonder if they weighed
the weight of the individual
with the amount that they gave.
>>SILVA: It was a very
careful consideration.
I learned from the
Sumerian scriptures
that apparently it was the
highest level of responsibility
in the temple--
was the person administering
the actual narcotics.
And it was usually
women, by the way.
They held the highest level
of physician in the temple.
>>NOORY: What did they do to
those people if somebody died?
>>SILVA: Apparently, if
they had a mild death
or they had an actual really,
really near-death experience,
they basically were made
to atone for a year.
They had to go for retraining.
But in serious cases,
they would actually
be excommunicated
from the temple.
But there's not enough
information that survives--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>SILVA: --that says
that anybody actually
died in the process.
So that brings up the
question, of course,
that if the women were the
highest level of initiate,
and this is in
Sumeria in 3000 BC,
where the women were
called [NON-ENGLISH]..
They wore a red robe
or a crimson robe,
which is called [NON-ENGLISH],,
where we get the word ritual
from--
>>NOORY: Rituals.
>>SILVA: --which means truth.
So they wore the robe of truth.
And they were part of
this divine bloodline that
came down from
hallowed appointments,
came down from a time of gods.
And the women maintained that
lineage, the sacred bloodline
lineage, which
eventually ends up
with the historical
tradition of Mary Magdalene.
>>NOORY: Was this a form of
recreation for these people?
>>SILVA: No.
They took it really seriously.
>>NOORY: They did.
>>SILVA: They were very
serious about this,
because the whole point was--
I mean, you take three years
of your life, for one thing.
That's a lot of time
to certainly set aside
to teachings.
And then you have to give
this harrowing near-death
experience.
But then you come back, and
you are totally self-empowered.
You see how the big
picture really is.
You've seen the
purpose of your soul.
You know the mechanics of nature
and how to work with them.
That's a lot of
self-empowerment,
a lot of power right there.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>SILVA: So it was a
very serious thing,
but they applied
it in their lives.
And these people became model
citizens, writers, architects,
healers, seers.
People like I said--
Plato and Pythagoras were
very renowned for it.
A lot of Egyptian
pharaohs did it.
And they would basically
set themselves up
as the example to follow.
You were only declared to
be a really good pharaoh
on your deathbed depending on
how the level of the people
has come up relative
to your own experience.
They became the
light for others.
And of course,
that gets corrupted
as well as we get into
the historical era.
>>NOORY: What did they
want to accomplish, Freddy,
with the near-death experience?
>>SILVA: Self-empowerment.
Literally, the
self-development of the self.
I think they recognized very
early on that we're here
to have an experience as a soul.
We're all individuals having
a collective experience,
but fundamentally, we're here
to have a personal experience.
Now, think about your own
life for a second, George,
where you spend so much
of your time reading books
and going to conferences
and figuring out,
how can I do this better?
Well, if you have
a certain shortcut,
where you can actually
access the other world,
even if for a few minutes
and if not for a few days,
come back with important
information about what
you are here to do, well, that
gives you a bit of an edge,
doesn't it?
You're much more in control.
You are now considered to
be living rather than dead,
because you're much more aware
of the spiritual environment
around you.
You're much more aware
of the facts of life,
and you have the
degree of control,
which means to a certain
degree you can actually
do a lot of
manifestation around you.
So that's a very
important thing.
That's a very
self-empowering thing.
I can't think of anything
more self-empowering actually
than to do that, to have
access to that information.
>>NOORY: Did everybody go
through these programs--
children, adults--
in these days?
>>SILVA: Mostly adults from
the surviving information
that I've read, but it
was open to everybody.
It wasn't an elitist thing.
I thought it was part of an
elite until I discovered--
>>NOORY: Like the Illuminati
or something like that?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
But the only reason
why it was an elite
was because they didn't
want nefarious people
to have control of the
information, like popes
and despots and people
like that, because you
can use it for the dark side,
as "Star Wars" reminds us.
But I found on one of the doors
of one of the so-called tombs
where no one's buried in Egypt,
there is an actual inscription
by a servant in the household
of Pharaoh Teti that describes
his amazement, and
I quote, of being
allowed into the secret
teachings of the pharaoh.
And my master
allowed me to enter
the room of restricted access.
It doesn't describe
the experience
because that was secret,
absolutely secret.
And then at the end,
he says, and I came out
and I found the way.
Well, the way is the
actual description
of the teaching
of the initiation
that they mention in
China in 3000 BC, which
eventually ends up in the
Middle East with the Essenes.
And so when Jesus
says, I am the way,
he's revealing the fact
that he's actually part
of that initiation tradition.
>>NOORY: So, you're
convinced there was a Jesus.
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
>>NOORY: You're not convinced
there was a resurrection.
>>SILVA: Not a
physical resurrection.
And the early Christians made
a very good point about that,
that it was all metaphorical.
The fundamental Christians
took everything very literally,
as fundamentalists tend to do.
They're very mental
and not much fun.
>>NOORY: But that's
the whole key
to Christianity, the
Resurrection, right?
>>SILVA: Yes.
But except the gnostic
Christians said,
it's all about a
personal experience.
It's a spiritual experience.
No one actually
dies in the process,
which is where I actually found,
well, how do you reconcile this
now with the historically
accepted version,
or the generally accepted
version, of a guy
that gets nailed to a cross?
Well, this is where the work
of the late Michael Baigent
comes in, a man
who I respect a lot
and I wish I'd met
before he died.
And I've read his dissertation
on this conundrum.
And he said, well,
basically, I had access
to much more
restricted information.
I was able to piece
together the actual events,
because what happened was that
Pontius Pilot had a problem.
The Jews and the rabbis wanted
to kill Jesus because they
were putting them out of a job.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>SILVA: He was saying
it's a person experience.
>>NOORY: And the masses
were following him.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And it was creating
a huge problem,
because they were saying,
no, no, to talk to God,
you have to talk
to us, and we'll
talk to you or your behalf.
Well, Jesus was saying,
no, the connection--
>>NOORY: Go direct.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
The temple of God
resides within you.
You don't need an intermediary.
That's bad for business.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>SILVA: So, Baigent realized
through his connections
and his sources that
Pontius Pilate said,
well, we can't
actually crucify Jesus
because he hasn't
broken any Roman law.
Crucifixion was
reserved for criminals.
He's not a criminal.
And so Joseph of Arimathea
was the go between.
And he said, well,
let me do this.
Why don't I take
Jesus off your hand?
I'll make sure he
meets his death
and then you can
basically wash your hands
and it will all be done.
And Pontius said, OK.
It turns out, Joseph of
Arimathea had a plot of land
not far from the
hill of Golgotha,
where they did the
real crucifixions.
And the nearest eyewitnesses--
>>NOORY: It wasn't Calvary?
>>SILVA: Same thing.
Yeah.
The nearest witnesses were
a quarter of a mile away.
In the shimmering
heat of the desert,
you could be watching anything
a quarter of a mile away,
and they basically
gave Jesus a narcotic.
To all intents and purposes,
he has the outward appearance
of death.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>SILVA: Probably the
poison from the pufferfish,
which Mary Magdalene,
being a priestess
of the temple, a high priestess,
would have known about.
They string him up on a cross.
They didn't nail him.
And then they take him down.
Mary Magdalene--
>>NOORY: He looks dead.
>>SILVA: He looks dead.
He's pale.
And Mary Magdalene is the first
witness to his resurrection,
remember?
>>NOORY: The narcotic
wears off, right?
>>SILVA: She gives him
the antidote, you see?
But in the official
version of the Bible,
it's not Mary Magdalene
who is the first witness,
because she's a woman, and
it's a patriarchal system
that's taken over.
>>NOORY: It's Peter the Apostle.
>>SILVA: Peter becomes
the first witness.
>>NOORY: Peter, yeah.
>>SILVA: And that's
the difference
between the gnostic gospels
and the real gospel--
and the official.
>>NOORY: How do you know
what to believe, Freddy?
>>SILVA: Well, I
never tell the truth.
I always tell facts.
So we'll let people figure
it out for themselves.
But I find Michael's
work very convincing--
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
>>SILVA: --very
convincing because it
shows you the whole picture.
Now, you make up your own
mind, because the Indian people
claim that Jesus-- he survived
his crucifixion because he
died in India at the age of 80.
>>NOORY: What about the
story of the Shroud of Turin?
We have this image of somebody.
Is it a painting?
Is it a farce, or is it real?
>>SILVA: I'm trying to remember
the name of the two authors
who wrote a fantastic book on
this, a very scientific book.
And they came to the
conclusion that it's actually
the image of Jacques de Molay,
because the person that's
printed on the shroud is
not of Semitic origin.
He looks like a white
European with a big beard.
>>NOORY: Who is
Jacques de Molay?
>>SILVA: Jacques de Molay
was the Templar Master,
the last Templar Master.
>>NOORY: And that was him?
>>SILVA: Yes.
And if I remember-- to try and
paraphrase the book correctly--
>>NOORY: Was it a painting?
>>SILVA: No, it was part of the
mechanics of what happens when
they put a kind of embalming
fluid on him because he was
suffering really badly
after he was beaten badly--
>>NOORY: So, it's
like an image, then.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
It was part of
the chemicals that
were put on his body to heal
his wounds after being seriously
beaten up by the Church.
Well, tortured.
And when they put the shroud
on him to sort of clean up
his wounds, there's a kind
of a radioactive element that
took part between the plants.
>>NOORY: And that
etched the image?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
Because you look at the image,
it does not look Semitic.
I mean, you got-- that's
the first point of reference
right there.
He does not look like
someone from the Near East.
He looks like a northern
European person from the Middle
Ages.
And again, I find their
argument very compelling.
>>NOORY: Amazing, amazing work.
Carmen Boulter was on my
program before, "Beyond Belief."
And we talked about
some ancient pyramids.
Before we get into that, because
I want to show you a video,
you have looked at Egypt.
You've gone there.
What is your overall
perception of what
this is, what the pyramids are?
Because you just mentioned
that it's not a burial tomb.
>>SILVA: No.
Where is the body?
Where are the inscriptions?
There are so many
places in Egypt,
which there is no one buried.
In fact, one of my favorite
ones is the pyramids
of Unas, where Una is
actually buried in the pyramid
next door.
Well, why does one
guy need two pyramids?
It's the same thing
with Thutmose III.
He has a chamber built into
the Valley of the Kings
and yet it's completely
oriented in a different manner
to burial chamber.
And he has himself buried
in Hatshepsut's Temple.
It doesn't make any sense.
There's too many buildings
with too many absent bodies.
The pyramid of Sekhemkhet
was found completely sealed.
The sarcophagus
was found sealed.
Even the chambers
were found sealed.
>>NOORY: With nothing in there.
>>SILVA: There's
nobody in there.
And after a while, it
began to dawn to me
that the Great Pyramid in
Giza served several purposes,
because all of these
are multi-functional.
But after my utmost
visit, I began
to realize, wait a minute,
if I start at the very bottom
of the pyramid, and--
well, you can't now because the
actual shaft is for the debris.
There's another
chamber under there,
which you could reach through
the Nile, which Herodotus
talked about.
And if I was actually just
to sit back for a second,
look at this and observe
this dispassionately,
well, you start off
at the very bottom,
and the chamber is very narrow.
It's claustrophobic.
It's dark.
It's unfinished.
And as you go
through the chambers,
and you go further
up, the chambers
get wider and more polished.
And you end up at
the King's Chamber,
highly polished, beautiful,
sonic properties,
mathematical designs.
And you think, my
god, I've just gone
from being a rough stone
to a polished diamond.
That is a metaphor
of initiation.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>SILVA: And in fact, if you
go to Thutmose III's tomb,
where he wasn't
buried, it actually
shows diagrams
which are remarkably
similar to the internal
chambers of the Great Pyramid.
But in his tomb, they are
describing the passage
into the other world.
And I believe that, most
of all, the Great Pyramid
was used for initiation.
And I've been in
there enough times
and under certain
circumstances where
I believe that,
because I've had things
happen to me in
the Great Pyramid,
where we were with a small group
of people in total darkness.
We actually saw about 30
people coming out of the stones
after we used sound.
>>NOORY: Geez.
>>SILVA: We weren't
expecting that.
We were just there to
honor, pray, show respect.
30 people just surrounded
us in total darkness.
And here's the weird part.
I know electrical engineers that
have done sound work in there.
They've seen the same people
when they hit a certain note.
And a writer called Paul
Brunton in the 1920s
wrote about exactly
the same experience.
I had his book in my library
for years, never read it.
When I wrote this
in my second book,
I thought, I wonder
if someone else
has had the same experience to
validate what I've experienced.
And sure enough, he
described the same people
coming out of the same
stone in the King's Chamber.
And he had all night in there.
He went walk about
into different parts
of the building.
So there's something very
important about that building
that is just not just
for a practical reason.
Or as Chris Dunn
has pointed out,
it's an actual technological
one, which I believe it is.
But ultimately, I think it
shows the ultimate level
of initiation.
It was designed as
an electrical circuit
to get you to have an
out-of-body experience, which
of course is why it's
called the House of Osiris.
>>NOORY: Well, what
a mind they had.
Now, Carmen Boulter
on "Beyond Belief"
was talking about an area
in Egypt called Hawara.
And there was a pyramid there.
>>CARMEN BOULTER: And so
we found a huge complex
in front of the
Pyramid of Hawara,
with one layer that's the
ceilings are 20 meters deep.
>>NOORY: Geez.
>>BOULTER: And the second
one is 40 meters deep.
That's huge.
But there's 63
chambers, six of which
are bigger than Olympic
size swimming pools.
>>NOORY: What are they doing
with all these chambers,
Freddy?
>>SILVA: Wow.
That's big.
>>NOORY: What are they doing?
No bodies.
No nothing.
>>SILVA: No bodies.
It reminds me a lot of--
again, going back to
the Pyramid of Unas--
if you can just look at the
whole spectrum of how it's all
put together, the
whole thing is very
metaphorical of the
journey of the soul.
I mean, you start on the
east coast of the Nile.
You're ferried across the
River of Forgetfulness, which
is the River Nile in this case.
You disembark in the west,
following the figurative path
of the sun going into the other
world, the equinox position.
From the moment you
land on dry land,
you go into like this tube,
like an umbilical cord.
You go into
preparatory chambers.
You are taught
certain information
about the other world.
And then you are prepared,
you are given the narcotic,
you are put into a chamber,
which is essentially
a big sarcophagus in the west
side of the building, which
is the figurative
position of descending
into the other world.
Even the choice of
granites-- black signifies
the source of all wisdom.
Black and darkness is where
all wisdom resides, according
to the original cultures, which
is why we have a Black Madonna,
for example.
So all of the things that design
these buildings-- they're all
designed to mimic the soul's
journey into the other world,
which again is a lot of
trouble to go to, isn't it?
>>NOORY: Oh my gosh.
>>SILVA: I mean, they had to
ferry the stones from 400 miles
away, create these
enormous things--
>>NOORY: It doesn't
make any sense.
>>SILVA: --just to have
an out-of-body experience.
So it leads me to believe
then that, yes, part of it
was a ritual, because
all the signs are there.
But there are other things,
which we're still working on
and still didn't know about.
Part of it is technological.
Part of it is as a
storehouse for information.
I mean, why would you build
something that's so waterproof,
so earthquake proof?
It seems to me that they
had an understanding
and the foreknowledge that
every once in a while,
the Earth goes through some
really horrible and painful
events.
They had to actually build these
things to last into a lifetime,
almost to remind us of
something, as if to say, well,
you're going to go through this
at some point in your life.
You're going to be so
technologically advanced,
and yet you'll know so little
about what's really going on.
Perhaps if we build these things
to last, you will go there--
whether it was tourists,
it was pilgrims--
and you will remind yourself
that there's something
much bigger going on here.
And so I think that
there's sort of--
there is a spiritual and
technological component
to all of these things
going on all the time.
>>NOORY: The Valley
of the Kings truly
had some of the bones of kings.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Much different
than the pyramids.
Why the difference?
>>SILVA: Again, it
was a place where
if you were much more in
tune with your environment,
and you can say
this, whether you're
a psychic or an
intuitive person,
you go to the
Valley of the Kings,
there's something very
energetic about it.
It's a very electromagnetic
environment.
We now have the tools to
measure this, by the way.
And Princeton has
done a lot of research
into measuring the energy
of these sacred places.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>SILVA: But essentially,
it is the repository
in the West of the Nile.
So that is actually the
physical repository.
But yet there was a tomb
of Thutmose III, which
is totally anomalous again.
There's no one buried there.
It usually--
>>NOORY: Maybe it was
taken out, perhaps.
>>SILVA: He was buried in--
>>NOORY: Oh, they put
him someplace else.
>>SILVA: --Hatshepsut's Temple.
Yeah.
Well, he had earlier built
himself a mortuary temple.
One guy needs two
places to get buried.
If you've tried to get--
when you get buried,
your head should always
be in the East, your
feet in the West.
And a lot of these--
and his particular
tomb doesn't add up.
It's facing Northeast,
which is a sign of wisdom
in the traditional teachings.
So, if you go into the
tomb, there is a well.
Now, why would a dead guy need
a well to have a drink of water,
if he's dead?
>>NOORY: Symbolism.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
You're drinking a
fountain of knowledge.
The sarcophagus, again,
is a beautiful example
of craftsmanship.
There's no one buried inside
it, but all around the chamber
is a massive book called "The
Book of the Hidden Chamber."
And again, it describes the
pathway into the other world,
how to avoid all
the distractions
when your soul leaves the
body, what you should say
to yourself to keep your focus,
what to do in the other world,
and also how to return back
into your physical body
to carry on life as normal.
And apparently, most pharaohs
in their 13th year of reign
had to undergo this
actual experience,
and then from which they were
declared risen from the dead.
Saqqara was one place where
they were actually indoctrinated
in this particular teaching.
>>NOORY: In the Pyramids of
Giza, again, the same thing,
nothing found inside
of any of them?
>>SILVA: Yeah.
And marking Orion, the actual
simulation of the Orion
of the ground.
And who is Orion?
Well, Orion is Osiris
in the physical form.
Osiris is essentially
the risen god-man,
who basically goes
into the other world,
he gets cut up
into little pieces,
he then marries his
divine virgin, Isis,
comes back, and is
replaced by his son Horus.
He's not avenging his father.
Horus is the living image
of the resurrected god-man.
There are many pharaohs
called Osiris, a lot of them.
So the Egyptians
actually believed
that he was actually a real
man and a figurative person.
He was an example to follow.
And from Osiris,
we also get people
like Jesus, whose etymological
name actually goes
all the way back to Osiris.
So you could say that Jesus
and Osiris are the same people.
So, they are real
living people like us
who undergo this
process for initiation.
And they basically
follow this risen god-man
on the winter solstice.
And they do the same thing
again on the spring equinox.
Freddy, throughout
this planet, we
find them mounds
that are supposed
to be burial ground areas.
But again, where are the bodies?
>>SILVA: 90% of all excavated
mounds, there's no body inside.
>>NOORY: Nothing, nothing.
>>SILVA: They're
marking something.
I used to think that
the earliest mound
culture was in northern Europe.
And we do have a lot
of giant's graves.
And yes, there are
giants buried there.
In fact, it's funny
going to a shop in London
and asking for a map of
Wiltshire, and you get a map,
and there are giant's graves
marked all over the place,
even to this very day.
But a lot of them don't
have anybody in them.
And again, it depends on the
orientation of the mound.
So if you're looking
at the East-West,
the equinox position,
which is actually
aligned to the rising of
Venus before the equinox
in the spring, there's the
mark of the risen initiate.
I thought that those
mounds in Britain
were actually some of
the oldest in the world.
It turns out that the
oldest mounds are actually
around the Black Sea area.
There was a culture
that was allegedly
older than the Egyptians
called the Scythians.
And we're now getting more
information from there
now that we have a more
openness on the internet.
And we're getting
more information
that part of the world.
And their mounds
are truly cyclopean.
And there was one mound, which
I'm particularly taken with,
where they found it, it
was completely unexcavated.
They went to the
inside chambers.
No one found inside.
>>NOORY: Nothing.
>>SILVA: But they found these
beautiful little gold cups.
And they're beautifully
adorned with a picture,
a very interesting
subject matter,
of an old bearded man stabbing
a younger man on the neck.
>>NOORY: Nice.
>>SILVA: Right here.
Now, that reminds me of a
lot of the stuff from Sumeria
and Babylonia, where you
had exactly the same image
of a man stabbing
the bull in the neck
with corn coming
out of the spine.
You think, that's weird.
It reminds me of Theseus
and the Minotaur in Crete.
These are all
initiation symbols.
Well, it turns out
that the cups were
found to be laced with
narcotics, which is exactly
the kind of narcotics
that were being used
for the out-of-body journeying.
So, it matches with the
image on the cups, which
suggest that the cup was used
during an initiation, where
you are basically--
your older self is stabbing
your immature self in the neck,
because when you go
into the other world,
and you come back
with the information,
with specialist
knowledge, you come
back much more knowledgeable.
You're no longer mature.
You're killing
that immature self.
You're now a learned
individual, which
is why you had these figures
of a bearded man on the cup.
So this again gets found
in Cyprus, in Crete,
in the Near East, exactly
in the same format.
>>NOORY: What is the
symbolism tell you
about what's going
on on this planet,
because it seems to be in
every region of the world?
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
I think it's an ongoing process.
I mean, the more I
travel, the more I see it,
whether it's in the Yucatan,
in Peru, in the Far East.
And it's the fact that
the human condition really
is the same condition that
it was for 50,000 years,
that we've come here
basically to be better people.
We come here as flesh
and blood people.
A soul inhabits your body.
And you have no idea what
you're doing for half your life.
And the idea is to basically
get a sense of awareness
of the bigger picture so you
can leave as a better person.
It sounds very basic and
very new-age and fluffy,
but it actually is quite true.
And I found that
also for myself,
because I'm not just
writing about this stuff.
I'm actually living in it.
And I actually found that
doing this, bit by bit,
going for these
places, I certainly do
realize I am slowly
becoming a better person.
I'm not perfect yet, working
on it, like all of us.
But there is a sense that you
do become much more enlightened
as you go through the years.
And at the end of
it, you're supposed
to leave your body in a
better condition than when
you arrived and
hopefully you leave
the world in a better condition
than when you arrived.
>>NOORY: And that
was their goal.
>>SILVA: And that
was the only goal.
It sounds so simple, and
yet it's so hard to master.
>>NOORY: Have we gotten it close
to what they did in those days?
>>SILVA: Oh, I don't know.
I want to say yes, because
I travel a lot and I see--
you read the headlines
in the paper.
It's always doom and gloom.
>>NOORY: Constantly.
>>SILVA: I worked in the
media for many, many years.
I know how it works.
There is this sort of
challenge to sell newspapers.
You have to, basically,
to make money.
>>NOORY: It's got
to be dramatic.
>>SILVA: And you have
to dramatize everything.
Good news rarely
makes the headlines.
And it came to the point of
view that it really comes down
to the fact that
on a local level,
there's many, many
poor people like us who
are doing the right thing.
One of my biggest mailing
lists is actually in Ohio,
conservative--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>SILVA: --little Ohio.
I have spoken to more
people in small little towns
you've never heard of than
anywhere else in the world.
And they come out
of the woodwork.
And people are doing
the right thing.
You never get to
hear about them.
And that to me tells me that
we're actually far more ahead
than we actually think we are.
I think we're actually
pretty close to hitting
a certain critical mass.
We're not that far off.
It's just, you don't
get to hear about us.
>>NOORY: Our dear friend
Erich von Daniken,
author of "Chariot
of the Gods?"--
>>SILVA: Who?
>>NOORY: --has a lot to say.
>> Cusco.
Cusco is a city in Peru.
And Cusco is known to tourists.
And all the tourists are
shown the Wall of Cusco.
It's called the
Wall of Saksaywaman.
It's an Inca wall.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But soon as you turn your
back to the Inca wall,
and you just move a few hundred
meters, you scrap into rocks.
And you see all these rocks are
cut artificially, absolutely
precise.
You stand before
gigantic blocks,
which are standing upside down.
For example, you
have staircases.
Stairs, and the
block is on the head,
so the staircases are coming
down from the ceiling.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It was a technology,
prehistoric technology, which
definitely came from the gods.
>>SILVA: I love this place.
>>NOORY: It's amazing.
>>NOORY: But what's its purpose?
>>SILVA: Saksaywaman
was a big mystery to me
until I began to
get into the concept
of the art of resurrection.
And then I when I looked at
it from this point of view,
everything made a lot of sense,
because Saksaywaman is not
by itself.
You have to basically
start at the Koricancha
in Cusco, which is 800 feet
further lower down, the navel
of the Earth, one of them.
You put a pin there on the map.
Everything comes in perfect
triangles, I've discovered.
All these temples
come in triangles.
The second point is in
this little hollowed
out limestone butte
called Kenko up the hill.
There is an S-shaped
chamber where
they used to actually do
out-of-body ceremonies
and rituals.
The passages follow the
rising and the setting
of the equinox sun,
which again tells me it's
an initiation place.
So you put a pin there.
The third pin that forms
a perfect triangle,
and I mean perfect, is
exactly in a horseshoe,
which is the oldest
part of Saksaywaman.
So this is part of a
huge ritual complex.
>>NOORY: Who would
think of all this?
>>SILVA: I know.
It's extraordinary.
They didn't have
television and apps
to refresh every six
months, did they?
>>NOORY: They're like architects
of the past, these people.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
But the biggest surprise
about Saksaywaman
is its original
name, what it means.
It means the place of
the satisfied falcon.
Now, falcons don't
figure in Andean law.
Condors do, not falcons.
That's your first clue.
And I'm going, why would
a falcon be satisfied?
Because that's an
Egyptian phrase.
Now, what would an Egyptian
phrase be doing here?
Well, the falcon in
Egypt is of course Horus,
who is the representation
of the risen god-man Osiris.
And I'm thinking, my
god, if you actually
look above Saksaywaman, look
at those corrugated walls,
there used to be a second-- a
mirror image on the other side
before the Spanish
took everything down.
And by the way, the walls
are not built by the Inca.
They were built way, way,
way, way before the Inca.
Way before.
And from the air, they actually
resemble the wings of a falcon.
And I'm thinking,
oh my god, we're
looking at the actual
shape of the bird.
And when you actually stand
on top of the Saksaywaman
and you look at the
actual angles of the wall,
where it stops, they are
aligned to the solstices,
which is, again, another
initiation position.
And then the center alignment
is not exactly East-West.
It's just five
degrees off, which
enables it to be
aligned to Venus rising
before the sun, which, again,
is another initiation position.
>>NOORY: What does
this tell you?
About what's been happening
on this planet in the past
and in the future?
>>SILVA: Oh, the fact
that spiritual evolution
is an ongoing process.
It's a constant process
of self-development
and polishing that rough
stone into a polished diamond.
We're still doing it today.
We're going to be doing
this for a long, long time.
So it's a constant
evolutionary process
that needs time and patience.
>>NOORY: Tell me a little bit
about the Nag Hammadi texts.
>>SILVA: Well, Nag Hammadi
is very interesting.
It was very uncomfortable
for the Church
when this stuff
was discovered by--
>>NOORY: Why?
>>SILVA: Because it
talks about things that
are not mentioned in the Bible.
You have to remember
that the Bible is
a very selective series of
books written by a bunch of guys
who had a certain agenda.
When you start looking at
why the Church was wiping out
the gnostic Christians,
and realizing
what the gnostic
Christians were writing,
and why they hid it to make sure
that a future generation would
discover the truth,
it becomes very
clear as to why the
Church was very upset.
Because first of all, there
were gospels like the Gospel
of Seth, which talks--
well, it actually has
a section about Jesus
watching his own crucifixion,
having a chat with Peter,
saying it's not me up there
that's getting crucified.
It's another guy called Simon.
It's someone else who's drinking
the vinegar and the gall,
someone else having
the crown of thorns
put on top of their head.
And I was laughing at
their ignorance, he says.
That's very
uncomfortable, because it
says that Jesus did
not actually physically
get nailed to a cross.
And the Quran
agrees, by the way.
And the Quran actually
has a lot of reverence
for Jesus, by the way.
Not many people know this.
So all these things
are very uncomfortable,
because it shows, yet again,
like the Gospel of Thomas,
the Gospel of Philip, that there
was a mystical appreciation
of Christianity.
And the roots of Christianity
are far, far older
than we give it credit for.
The Church couldn't have that.
>>NOORY: Let's get
Gregg Braden's take
on this from his Gaia series,
"Ancient Civilizations."
>> Nag Hammadi is a small
village along the Nile River
in Egypt.
And a young boy was
tasked by his mother
to find kindling,
which was in very
short supply, because
there are very few trees.
There's no forests that
grow along the Nile River
in that part of Egypt.
Being very resourceful,
he went to what
he knew were old grave
sites and old tombs.
And he found papyrus
books that were bound.
These are the gnostic texts.
It wasn't until
someone recognized--
a neighbor recognized
what it was that he had--
that Department of Antiquities
in Cairo became aware.
And of course, they
moved very quickly
to preserve the
remaining documents.
So the Nag Hammadi library,
it is the most complete record
of the Old Testament.
And the reason it's
so controversial
is because it contains many
of the books that have not
been seen since the
Church edited them
in the fourth century.
>>NOORY: Fascinating work.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
And John Allegro, who is one
of the scholars deciphering
the texts, he broke ranks
with the other people.
And he said there's a
huge conspiracy of silence
here, because the Church
is spending millions
making sure that this stuff
doesn't come out, because it's
going to undermine
the entire structure
and foundation of the
Church, because it talks
about things that the
Church is not discussing
and also saying that Christ
was a real person, not a god.
And also the experience
that he was describing
was mystical, not physical.
>>NOORY: They don't
want to hear that.
>>SILVA: Absolutely not.
And it puts the whole emphasis
on a matriarchal line, not
a patriarchal line.
Very, very uncomfortable.
So, well done, John Allegro.
>>NOORY: Over 300 comparisons
between the stories
of Krishna and Jesus.
What's that all about?
>>SILVA: Oh dear.
Very uncomfortable, isn't it?
>>NOORY: It is.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
I mean, if you look at the
story of Krishna, and in fact
not just Krishna
but also Mithra,
which is the older
iteration of that story--
it goes back to 6000 BC now,
as far as I can figure it out.
It's also found
in Central America
with Kukulkan and Quetzalcoatl.
>>NOORY: It's all the same.
>>SILVA: It's all the same
person, or the same concept,
which is then regurgitated by
a physical person following
that spiritual tradition.
So the story I love to hear is
actually about Quetzalcoatal
when the Spanish
show up and they're
teaching Jesus that gets risen
from the dead in the equinox.
He's born in the
cave to a virgin.
And then he goes away for
40 years in the wild--
I'm sorry- 40 days
in the wilderness.
He comes back.
He rides an ass, goes on top of
a hill, gets nailed to a cross,
goes into the other world,
comes back three days later,
risen from the dead.
And the locals said, you've
only just picked up that story?
We've had it for a
very, very long time.
I would have loved to have
been a fly on the wall.
>>NOORY: Biblically
speaking, there
was a town called Nazareth,
where Jesus apparently
lived as a child.
Was that myth or reality?
>>SILVA: Well,
according to archeology,
Nazareth really didn't
exist at the time of Jesus.
It was just a bunch of
caves and some hovels.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>SILVA: The synagogue
that the Bible
talks about apparently
there's no evidence
or proof that it ever existed.
But there was a term that
existed around his time,
which is called a [NON-ENGLISH],,
which sounds very,
very similar.
Now, the [NON-ENGLISH] turns
out to be the highest level
of priesthood in
Babylonian times.
And to be a [NON-ENGLISH]
literally means to be a keeper
of divine secrets.
So, if you're actually
a [NON-ENGLISH],,
it meant you're a high level
initiate of the temple.
So, by saying Jesus of Nazareth,
you're actually revealing
the fact that Jesus was
actually a [NON-ENGLISH]..
Not from Nazareth, he was
He was a priest and a preserver.
>>NOORY: Well, they used to
call him the Nazarene, right?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
Exactly.
So this thing is actually
2,000 years older
than the actual Nazareth.
It goes back to
the Babylonian era.
So again, it shows that
Jesus was following
a very old initiatic
tradition, which
is the same tradition of
John the Baptist as well.
>>NOORY: Knights
Templar, they were always
looking for secrets, especially
under the Temple Mount.
There was a phrase called
the risen that they used.
What were they looking for?
>>SILVA: Ah, the
Knights Templar.
Most of them were Cistercian
monks, by the way.
And in order to
understand the Templars,
you've got to understand
who the Cistercians were
and their leader
Bernard of Clairvaux.
Now, I've read 500
of his letters,
got pretty much under his skin.
>>NOORY: 500?
>>SILVA: I do my
work thoroughly.
>>NOORY: Yes, you do.
>>SILVA: I have no life.
And basically, I
got under his skin.
And I basically realized
this man was a true Christian
in the real sense of the word.
And he wanted to basically
go back and figure out
what the Essenes were doing
and get the true story.
So he basically handpicked
most of the Templars,
who were half Cistercian monks.
And they basically knew
what to look for when
they went to Jerusalem.
They weren't crusaders.
They were very different
from the crusaders.
They used the Crusades as a
means to get into Temple Mount.
They knew exactly where
they were digging.
And this was proved by
archaeological digs recently.
>>NOORY: Were they looking
for the Ark of the Covenant?
>>SILVA: I'm not sure.
I am much more
convinced that they
were looking for actual
spiritual treasure,
because they're already rich.
They gave up their money to
pool it into a central resource
to become poor.
To go into the Holy
Land to dig in really
hot and unfavorable
conditions to discover money,
it doesn't make sense.
Seems to me that
when you actually
look at the word treasure--
the original word
treasure-- it actually means
at the [NON-ENGLISH],, which
means a library of treasure,
a library of words and scrolls.
I think they went there
to look for the scrolls
that the Essenes had hidden.
>>NOORY: That was the treasure.
>>SILVA: That was
the real treasure.
They also found money.
There's no doubt about that.
That's proven.
But their real
treasure was spiritual.
It was in here.
Because for them,
the whole purpose
was to experience
another level of being.
And when you put that in context
of central Europe at that era,
in the 12th century,
Europe was a mess.
It was a disaster zone.
It was an economy based
on plunder and death.
So, for them to discover
a spiritual treasure
meant that they could
actually create a new kingdom
on Earth, a new Jerusalem.
And that was their stated fact.
So they had two brotherhoods--
an outer brotherhood that
took care of business
and an inner
brotherhood who behaved
like a magisterial college--
sorry, a ministerial college.
And they basically acted like a
secret society, a society apart
from everybody else,
the few above the many,
and here were taught
the special secrets
in special chambers,
which I found
in Portugal of all places,
which is a country they created
from scratch.
And in these chambers,
they actually
did the risen ceremonies.
And at the end, the brotherhoods
that went into these chambers
were declared reason,
exactly as you'd
find in the third degree of
Freemasonry, which of course
are the Templar's progeny.
So, there's your connection.
They were looking for
a spiritual treasure
on the Temple Mount buried
there by the Essenes who
were following the same
concept, which they called
the way, which was the same
concept that was basically
followed by the
Chinese in 3000 BC
by a group called the
Gentleman of the Way.
You see how this big tradition
is going on over 4,000 years--
>>NOORY: That's a long time.
>>SILVA: --by different
groups of people.
>>NOORY: Is the living
resurrection ritual
still going on now?
>>SILVA: In certain
parts of the world, yes--
>>NOORY: It is.
>>SILVA: --by
indigenous cultures.
You'd have to go to the
Amazon, the Yucatan.
It's still being practiced.
>>NOORY: With narcotics?
>>SILVA: With narcotics.
One of them is
called [NON-ENGLISH],,
which is like this
honey-flavored drink.
>>NOORY: How about ayahuasca?
>>SILVA: Ayahuasca-- see,
that's what I asked myself
when I was writing the book.
How does this differ
from shamanism?
Is it the same thing?
It turns out it's not.
Most shamanic
experience is actually
a way to actually have an
induced visionary experience.
The living
resurrection experience
was actually an actual physical
experience, but by your soul
rather than your body.
So just like you and I
are talking right now,
we were having this
experience on a soul level.
That's not what shamanism is.
So ayahuasca is kind
of a means to create
an illusionary environment,
which you will still
get visions and information
to a certain degree.
But the true
resurrection experience
was actually a
physical experience
experienced by your soul alone.
Very, very real on
another dimensional level.
And you're able to come back.
>>NOORY: And it's still ongoing?
>>SILVA: And it's still
ongoing in parts of the Pacific
as well.
Yes.
>>NOORY: Freddy, thanks
for being on the program.
>>SILVA: My pleasure.
>>NOORY: Who knows what these
structures really are for?
As Freddy has been
saying, they would
go inside and not find any
bodies, not find any skeletons.
But there was truly
a purpose or reason
for building these structures.
One day, we'll
get those answers.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]